Bump to 0.0.12 (#2500)
astral-sh/ty: CHANGELOG.md

- Add a diagnostic for non-decorator uses of `final` ([#22555](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22555))
- Add diagnostic to catch generic enums ([#22482](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22482))
- Add diagnostics for `__init_subclass__` argument mismatch ([#22185](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22185))
- Add diagnostics to validate `TypeIs` and `TypeGuard` definitions ([#22300](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22300))
- Apply type narrowing to walrus targets ([#22369](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22369))
- Detect invalid `@total_ordering` applications in non-decorator contexts ([#22486](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22486))
- Fix `@Todo` type for starred expressions ([#22503](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22503))
- Improve disambiguation of types in diagnostics ([#22547](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22547))
- Include type parameters in the display for generic `Callable` types ([#22435](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22435))
- Infer `type[Unknown]` for calls to `type()` when overload evaluation is ambiguous ([#22569](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22569))

> - Show dynamic NamedTuple defaults in signature ([#22574](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22574))

Reviewer: Can also be combined with "Add support for functional `namedtuple` creation" IMO

# Changelog

## 0.0.12

Released on 2026-01-14.

### Bug fixes

> - Avoid panic for comparison on synthesized variants ([#22509](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22509))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid panic that could occur when `cast`ing an object to a TypedDict or union of TypedDicts ([#22509](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22509))
```

- Avoid emitting Liskov repeated violations from grandparent to child ([#22484](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22484))
- Fix interaction between classmethod, contextmanager, and Self ([#22407](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22407))
- Fix contravariant type variable bound checking in specialization inference ([#22488](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22488))
- Fix false positive for bounded type parameters with NewType ([#22542](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22542))

### Type checking

- Add support for dynamic `type()` classes ([#22291](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22291))
- Add support for functional `namedtuple` creation ([#22327](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22327))
- Add a diagnostic for non-decorator uses of `final` ([#22555](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22555))
- Add diagnostic to catch generic enums ([#22482](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22482))
- Add diagnostics for `__init_subclass__` argument mismatch ([#22185](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22185))
- Add diagnostics to validate `TypeIs` and `TypeGuard` definitions ([#22300](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22300))

> - Apply narrowing to walrus targets ([#22369](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22369))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Apply type narrowing to walrus targets ([#22369](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22369))
```

- Emit diagnostics for invalid base classes in `type(...)` ([#22499](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22499))
- Emit diagnostics for invalid dynamic namedtuple fields ([#22575](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22575))
- Fix `@Todo` type for starred expressions ([#22503](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22503))
- Improve disambiguation of types ([#22547](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22547))
- Include type parameters in generic callable display ([#22435](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22435))
- Infer `type[Unknown]` for calls to `type()` when overload evaluation is ambiguous ([#22569](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22569))
- Show dynamic NamedTuple defaults in signature ([#22574](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22574))
- Support 'dangling' `type(...)` constructors ([#22537](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22537))
- Support assignment to unions of `TypedDict`s ([#22294](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22294))
- Support own instance members for `type(...)` classes ([#22480](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22480))

> - Synthesize an empty `__slots__` for named tuples ([#22573](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22573))

Reviewer: Same for these two
